feat(docs): Add aws data pipeline blog (#1128)
kestra-io/docs: content/blogs/2024-04-10-aws-data-pipeline.md

---

> title: "Building AWS Data Pipeline with Kestra"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Data Pipelines on Amazon Redshift — How to Orchestrate AWS Services with Kestra"
```

description: "Put together an AWS Data Pipeline consisting of DynamoDB, S3 and Redshift using Kestra."
date: 2024-04-10T10:00:00
category: Solutions
author:
  name: Shruti Mantri
  image: "smantri"
---

> Amazon Web Services(AWS) is a leading cloud provider with heavy industry adoption. This blog post dives into [Kestra's](https://github.com/kestra-io/kestra) integrations for AWS, with an example of a real-world data pipeline. The data pipeline consists of multiple AWS services like DynamoDB, S3 and Redshift, which are put together using Kestra's orchestration capabilities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This blog post dives into [Kestra's](https://github.com/kestra-io/kestra) integrations for AWS, with an example of a real-world data pipeline I used in my daily work as a data engineer. The data pipeline consists of multiple AWS services, including DynamoDB, S3, and Redshift, which are orchestrated using Kestra.
```

## Kestra and AWS

AWS offers a vast array of cloud services, including computing power, storage, database solutions, networking and more. This extensive portfolio of service offerings is one of the key advantages of using AWS. AWS also offers a pay-as-you-go pricing model, allowing organizations to pay only for the resources they consume, thereby reducing costs and optimizing resource utilization. With these features, AWS has become the backbone of many businesses, from startups to enterprises, providing them with scalable and reliable infrastructure to innovate and grow.

Kestra is a powerful orchestration engine with a rich set of plugins. Kestra seamlessly integrates with multiple [AWS services](https://kestra.io/plugins/plugin-aws) making it easy to orchestrate AWS services based data pipelines.

> ## Usecase

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Use case
```

In this blog post, we will develop a data pipeline that has data about [products](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kestra-io/datasets/main/csv/products.csv) and [orders](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kestra-io/datasets/main/csv/products.csv). We start with both the data sets being present as CSV files. Our final aim is to join these two data sets and have detailed orders, where each order record has complete product information, in the CSV format.

In the actual world, dimension data like products would be present in databases like RDS or DynamoDB, while fact data like orders will be present on file systems like S3. Taking this into consideration, we will have a data preparation phase where we would load the products CSV file onto DynamoDB, and orders CSV file onto S3 using Kestra.

> Then, we would proceed to create the data pipeline. We would load the products data fron DynamoDB onto Redshift, and load orders data from S3 onto Redshift. We would join these two tables from Redshift, and upload the detailed orders onto S3.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, we will proceed to create the data pipeline. We will load the product data from DynamoDB onto Redshift and load order data from S3 onto Redshift. We'll join these two tables from Redshift and upload the detailed orders to S3.
```

@shrutimantri we discussed this in the past, don't use "would" in a tutorial. You can replace with "will" or replace with "Next...", "Let's now look at how to ..." etc

![aws_data_pipeline](/blogs/2024-03-10-aws-data-pipeline/aws_data_pipeline.png)

## Data preparation phase

As part of the data preparation phase, we will have a Kestra flow that downloads the products file and orders file from HTTP, and then loads products onto DynamoDB, and uploads the orders file onto S3.

For uploading data onto DynamoDB, we will first create the `products` table in DynamoDB.

![products_dynamodb_table](/blogs/2024-03-10-aws-data-pipeline/products_dynamodb_table.png)

> In order to upload the product records, we will call the PutItem task on DynamoDB for each of the product records from the products CSV file. Hence, we would have a `product_upload` flow that converts each incoming product record into JSON, and then writes the record onto DynamoDB using PutItem task.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to upload the product records, we will call the PutItem task on DynamoDB for each of the product records from the products CSV file. Hence, we will have a `product_upload` flow that converts each incoming product record into JSON, and then writes the record onto DynamoDB using PutItem task.
```
